changefeed: support changfeeed in azure (#20552)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/setup-azure-self-hosted-kafka-private-link-service.md

    3. Local File: select the private key downloaded by Drowser before
    4. Check "Open in new browser tab"
3. Click **Connect**, it will open a new browser tab with linux termial. You will need to open 3 linux termials since we have 3 broker nodes.

4. Download binaries in each broker nodes.

    ```shell
    # Download Kafka and OpenJDK, and then extract the files. You can choose the binary version based on your preference.
    wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/kafka/3.7.1/kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
    tar -zxf kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
    wget https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk22.0.2/c9ecb94cd31b495da20a27d4581645e8/9/GPL/openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
    tar -zxf openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
    ```

**2.3. Set up Kafka nodes on each broker node**

1. Set up a KRaft Kafka cluster with three nodes. Each node acts as a broker and controller roles. For every broker:

    1. For `listeners`, all three brokers are the same and act as brokers and controller roles:
        1. Configure the same CONTROLLER listener for all **controller** role nodes. If you only want to add the **broker** role nodes, you do not need the CONTROLLER listener in `server.properties`.

>         2. Configure two **broker** listeners. INTERNAL for internal access; EXTERNAL for external access from TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        2. Configure two **broker** listeners. INTERNAL for internal access, and EXTERNAL for external access from TiDB Cloud.
```

    
    2. For `advertised.listeners`, do the following:
        1. Configure an INTERNAL advertised listener for each broker using the internal IP address of the broker node, which allows internal Kafka clients to connect to the broker via the advertised address.
        2. Configure an EXTERNAL advertised listener based on **Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern** you get from TiDB Cloud for every broker node to help TiDB Cloud differentiate between different brokers. Different EXTERNAL advertised listeners help Kafka clients from TiDB Cloud side route requests to the right broker.
            - `<port>` differentiates brokers from Kafka Private Link service access points. Plan a port range for EXTERNAL advertised listeners of all brokers. These ports do not have to be actual ports listened to by brokers. They are ports listened to by the load balancer for Private Link service that will forward requests to different brokers.
            - It is recommended to configure different broker IDs for different brokers to make it easy for troubleshooting.
    
    3. The planning values:

>         - CONTROLLER port: `29092`
>         - INTERNAL port: `9092`
>         - EXTERNAL: `39092`
>         - EXTERNAL advertised listener ports range: `9093~9095`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - CONTROLLER port: `29092`
        - INTERNAL port: `9092`
        - EXTERNAL port: `39092`
        - Range of the EXTERNAL advertised listener ports: `9093~9095`
```

    rm -rf $KAFKA_LOG_DIR
    mkdir -p $KAFKA_LOG_DIR

    $KAFKA_STORAGE_CMD format -t "BRl69zcmTFmiPaoaANybiw" -c "$KAFKA_CONFIG_DIR/server.properties" > $KAFKA_LOG_DIR/server_format.log   
    LOG_DIR=$KAFKA_LOG_DIR nohup $KAFKA_START_CMD "$KAFKA_CONFIG_DIR/server.properties" &
    ```

**2.4. Test the cluster setting**

1. Test the Kafka bootstrap.

    ```shell
    export JAVA_HOME=/home/azureuser/jdk-22.0.2

    # Bootstrap from INTERNAL listener
    ./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:9092 | grep 9092
    # Expected output (the actual order might be different)
    {broker-node-1-ip}:9092 (id: 1 rack: null) -> (
    {broker-node-2-ip}:9092 (id: 2 rack: null) -> (
    {broker-node-3-ip}:9092 (id: 3 rack: null) -> (

    # Bootstrap from EXTERNAL listener
    ./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:39092
    # Expected output for the last 3 lines (the actual order might be different)
    # The difference in the output from "bootstrap from INTERNAL listener" is that exceptions or errors might occur because advertised listeners cannot be resolved in kafka-pls-vnet.

>     # We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Link. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # You can resolve these exceptions or errors on the TiDB Cloud side. TiDB Cloud routes the data to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Link. 
```

        - It is recommended to configure different broker IDs for different brokers to make it easy for troubleshooting.

2. Use SSH to log in to each broker node. Modify the configuration file of each broker with the following content:

     ```properties
     # Add EXTERNAL listener
     listeners=INTERNAL:...,EXTERNAL://0.0.0.0:39092

     # Add EXTERNAL advertised listeners based on the "Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern" in the "Prerequisites" section
     # 1. The pattern is "<broker_id>.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:<port>".
     # 2. So the EXTERNAL can be "bx.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:xxxx". Replace <broker_id> with "b" prefix plus "node.id" properties, and replace <port> with a unique port in the port range of the EXTERNAL advertised listener.
     # For example
     advertised.listeners=...,EXTERNAL://b1.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:9093

>      # Configure EXTERNAL map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     # Configure the EXTERNAL map
```

    listener.security.protocol.map=...,EXTERNAL:PLAINTEXT
     ```

3. After you reconfigure all the brokers, restart your Kafka brokers one by one.

**2. Test EXTERNAL listener settings in your internal network**

You can download Kafka and OpenJDK in your Kafka client node.

```shell
# Download Kafka and OpenJDK, and then extract the files. You can choose the binary version based on your preference.
wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/kafka/3.7.1/kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
tar -zxf kafka_2.13-3.7.1.tgz
wget https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk22.0.2/c9ecb94cd31b495da20a27d4581645e8/9/GPL/openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
tar -zxf openjdk-22.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
```

Execute the following script to test if the bootstrap works as expected.

```shell
export JAVA_HOME=~/jdk-22.0.2

# Bootstrap from the EXTERNAL listener
./kafka_2.13-3.7.1/bin/kafka-broker-api-versions.sh --bootstrap-server {one_of_broker_ip}:39092

# Expected output for the last 3 lines (the actual order might be different)
# There will be some exceptions or errors because advertised listeners cannot be resolved in your Kafka network. 

> # We will make them resolvable in TiDB Cloud side and make it route to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Service Connect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# You can resolve exceptions or errors on the TiDB Cloud side. TiDB Cloud routes the data to the right broker when you create a changefeed connect to this Kafka cluster by Private Service Connect. 
```

b1.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:9093 (id: 1 rack: null) -> ERROR: org.apache.kafka.common.errors.DisconnectException
b2.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:9094 (id: 2 rack: null) -> ERROR: org.apache.kafka.common.errors.DisconnectException
b3.abc.eastus.azure.3199745.tidbcloud.com:9095 (id: 3 rack: null) -> ERROR: org.apache.kafka.common.errors.DisconnectException
```

## Step 2. Expose the Kafka cluster as Private Link Service

> ### 1. Set up the load balancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Set up the load balancer

```

1. Go to [Azure Portal > Home > Load balancing](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Network/LoadBalancingHubMenuBlade/~/loadBalancers), click **Create**.

> 2. In **Basic** tab, fill parameters as following:
>     1. Select your "Subscription", "Resource group" and "Region".
>     2. Name: kafka-lb
>     3. SKU: Standard
>     4. Type: Internal
>     5. Tier: Regional
> 3. In **Frontend IP configuration** tab, add frontend IP configuration
>     1. Name: kafka-lb-ip
>     2. IP version: IPv4
>     3. Virtual network: kafka-pls-vnet
>     4. Subnet: brokers-subnet
>     5. Assignment: Dynamic
>     6. Availability zone: Zone-redundant
> 4. In **Backend pools**, add 3 backend pools
>     1. Name: pool1; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-1
>     2. Name: pool2; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-2
>     3. Name: pool3; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-3
> 5. In **Inbound rules**, add 3 load balancing rules, create a health probe for these 3 rules.
>     1. Rule 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In **Basic** tab, fill parameters as following:

    - Select your "Subscription", "Resource group" and "Region".
    - **Name**: `kafka-lb`
    - **SKU**: `Standard`
    - **Type**: `Internal`
    - **Tier**: `Regional`

3. In **Frontend IP configuration** tab, add frontend IP configuration

    - **Name**: `kafka-lb-ip`
    - **IP version**: `IPv4`
    - **Virtual network**: `kafka-pls-vnet`
    - **Subnet**: `brokers-subnet`
    - **Assignment**: `Dynamic`
    - **Availability zone**: `Zone-redundant`

4. In **Backend pools**, add 3 backend pools

    - Name: pool1; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-1
    - Name: pool2; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-2
    - Name: pool3; Backend Pool Configuration: NIC; IP configurations: broker-node-3

5. In **Inbound rules**, add 3 load balancing rules, create a health probe for these 3 rules.

    1. Rule 1
```

>         - Name: rule1 
>         - IP version: IPv4
>         - Frontend IP address: kafka-lb-ip
>         - Backend pool: pool1
>         - Protocol: TCP
>         - Port: 9093
>         - Backend port: 39092
>         - Health probe:
>             - Name: kafka-lb-hp
>             - Protocol: TCP
>             - Port: 39092
>     2. Rule 2
>         - Name: rule1 
>         - IP version: IPv4
>         - Frontend IP address: kafka-lb-ip
>         - Backend pool: pool1
>         - Protocol: TCP
>         - Port: 9094
>         - Backend port: 39092
>         - Health probe: kafka-lb-hp

Reviewer: ```suggestion

        - **Name**: rule1 
        - **IP version**: IPv4
        - **Frontend IP address**: kafka-lb-ip
        - **Backend pool**: `pool1`
        - **Protocol**: `TCP`
        - **Port**: `9093`
        - **Backend port**: `39092`
        - **Health probe**:
            - **Name**: `kafka-lb-hp`
            - **Protocol**: `TCP`
            - **Port**: `39092`
    
    2. Rule 2
        - **Name**: `rule1` 
        - **IP version**: `IPv4`
        - **Frontend IP address**: `kafka-lb-ip`
        - **Backend pool**: `pool1`
        - **Protocol**: `TCP`
        - **Port**: `9094`
        - **Backend port**: `39092`
        - **Health probe**: `kafka-lb-hp`
```

>     3. Rule 3
>         - Name: rule1 
>         - IP version: IPv4
>         - Frontend IP address: kafka-lb-ip
>         - Backend pool: pool1
>         - Protocol: TCP
>         - Port: 9095
>         - Backend port: 39092
>         - Health probe: kafka-lb-hp
> 6. Click **Review + create**, check if everything is as expected.
> 7. Click **Create**, wait the operation done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    3. Rule 3
    
        - **Name**: `rule1` 
        - **IP version**: `IPv4`
        - **Frontend IP address**: `kafka-lb-ip`
        - **Backend pool**: `pool1`
        - **Protocol**: `TCP`
        - **Port**: `9095`
        - **Backend port**: `39092`
        - **Health probe**: `kafka-lb-hp`
    
6. Click **Review + create**. Verify the information.

7. Click **Create**.
```

### 2. Set up Private Link Service

> 1. Go to [Azure Portal > Home > Private Link Center > Private link services](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Network/PrivateLinkCenterBlade/~/privatelinkservices), click **Create** to create a Private Link service for the Kafka load balancer.
> 2. In **Basic** tab, fill parameters as following:
>     1. Select your "Subscription", "Resource group" and "Region".
>     2. Name: kafka-pls
> 3. In **Outbound settings** tab, fill parameters as following:
>     1. Load balancer: kafka-lb
>     2. Load balancer frontend IP address: kafka-lb-ip
>     3. Source NAT subnet: kafka-pls-vnet/brokers-subnet
> 4. In **Access security** tab
>     1. For "Visibility", select "Restricted by subscription" or "Anyone with your alias".
>     2. For "Auto-approval", add "Subscription of TiDB Cloud Azure Account" you got before.
> 5. Click **Review + create**, check if everything is as expected.
> 6. Click **Create**, wait the operation done, note down the Alias of the Private Link service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [Azure Portal > Home > Private Link Center > Private link services](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Network/PrivateLinkCenterBlade/~/privatelinkservices), click **Create** to create a Private Link service for the Kafka load balancer.

2. In the **Basic** tab, fill parameters as follows:
    - Select your "Subscription", "Resource group" and "Region".
    - **Name**: `kafka-pls`

3. In the **Outbound settings** tab, fill parameters as follows:
    - **Load balancer**: `kafka-lb`
    - **Load balancer frontend IP address**: `kafka-lb-ip`
    - **Source NAT subnet**: `kafka-pls-vnet/brokers-subnet`

4. In the **Access security** tab
    - For "Visibility", select "Restricted by subscription" or "Anyone with your alias".
    - For "Auto-approval", add "Subscription of TiDB Cloud Azure Account" you got before.

5. Click **Review + create**. Verify the information.

6. Click **Create**. When the operation is done, note down the Alias of the Private Link service.
```
